Follow these steps to add a new notification system to SageAlert.

  * Create a new class that stores the **_settings required to connect/communicate with your new notification system._**  This class must implement the `NotificationServerSettings` interface.
    * Only the connection settings are passed between the client (browser) and SageAlert server; all notification systems are expected to handle multiple instances of a system to allow users to notify more than one instance of your notification system.  For example, an email notification system must support notifying multiple email addresses, a Twitter setup is expected to allow notifying multiple Twitter accounts, etc.
    * `NotifcationServerSettings` extends the GWT `IsSerializable` interface and the SageAlert `IsDataStoreSerializable` interface.  This means you must ensure that this class is GWT serializable (so it can be transmitted via GWT RPC) and you must also implement the methods for `IsDataStoreSerializable`.  These methods are used to store instances of your settings in the SageAlert data store.  Objects must be serialized into two string fields.  The key field is how the object is uniquely identified (typically a username or hostname or a combination thereof).  The rest of the state of the object must be serialized into the data field.  You, as the author of this class, are responsible for the packing and unpacking of these strings.  If more than one field must be serialized for either value then you'll probably want to use some delimiter and pack the values into the field that way.  Then you'll unpack them by splitting the big string and filling back in your state values as necessary.
    * You **MUST** also override `public boolean equals(Object o)` and `public int hashCode()` since SageAlert uses these objects as keys in a hash table within the server code.  Failure to properly implement these methods will lead to both a memory leak and missed notifications.
    * You **MUST** create an instance method with signature: `void unserialize(String key, String data)`.  It is recommended that this method be `protected` since it should only be called by the reflective code on the server side and shouldn't be used by anything else.  This method is called when your object is being restored from the data store.  You will be given the key and data fields you provided above and you must unpack them and restore the state variables in the object.
    * You **SHOULD** override `public String toString()` and have it return a useful, human friendly description of the object.  Typically, the value should be something like `ServerType @ Hostname` (i.e. `Growl @ 192.168.0.1`).  This string describes the type of server (Growl) and the specific instance it talks to (the Growl instance installed at IP 192.168.0.1 in this example).  **DO NOT** add sensitive data to this string (i.e. passwords) as this string will be printed often in the application log file.
    * See the `GrowlServerSettings` class for a complete example.
  * Create a new Widget for display on the GUI.  This widget will be used to create new instances of your notification server.  Typically this will be a VerticalPanel, but doesn't have to be.  Any Widget will do.  Use the `ReporterService` RPC mechanism to save and load your settings objects from the server.  If the generic `ReporterService` isn't sufficient then you are free to write your own GWT RPC services to facilitate your needs.
    * Be aware that JDBC code can only be written in `DataStore`.  Anywhere else in the app where you need to read or write to the data store must be done through the `DataStore` interface.
    * See the `GrowlSettingsPanel` class for a complete example.
  * Create a new class that implements the `SageEventHandler` interface.  This will be the class that actually talks to the notification service you're adding.  Simply implement the interface such that received events are sent to the notification system.
    * This class **MUST** cache instances of itself and never create more than one connection to the same instance.  The constructor must be `protected` or `private` so that consumers can't instantiate themselves, but must go through the static methods that handle the proper caching of instances.
    * See the `GrowlServer` class for a complete example.
  * Modify the `NotificationServerSettingsFactory` class so that it properly returns an instance of your server class when it receives an instance of your settings class as an argument.  Failure to do this step will cause most (all?) of the app's threads to die with an unhandled `RuntimeException`.
  * Finally, add your config Widget to the tab panel.  Simply add your widget to the tab panel that's created in the `SageAlert` class.  The _Alerts_ tab must always be the first one, followed by _Settings_ then the various notification system tabs.  The _About_ tab must always be last.

And that's it, you've added a new notification system to SageAlert.  Now **test, test, and test some more** before submitting your patch for inclusion in the project.